---
layout: post
title:  "DBC Phase 2, Day 14"
date:   2015-05-14
categories: blog
excerpt: "Well, that happened. 6 grueling hours later, the Phase 2 Assessment is over. You know it was a complete shit show when we started with 3 hours and the teachers kept extending the time to allow us to finish all of the sections. We even had to stop about 2/3 of the way through it to eat lunch. We came back and worked on it some more, but there was definitely an overall feeling of frustration, failure, and fear coming from the team."
---

Today was all about final projects and Assessment reviews. Not really much to report about my final project, except to say that my app is fully functional, and I've added all of the CSS that I'd planned.
<br>
<br>
My Assessment code review came in the afternoon, and it was exactly as I expected. I did poorly on the AJAX, but the code I put in for it was good. I just couldn't get it to work thanks to a few syntax errors. Everything else in the assessment was good. I spent some time explaining to my reviewer the frustration I had with AJAX, mainly around the lack of training we got with it. Precious few people were actually successful with that portion of the Assessment, which was encouraging for my ego, but it showed how much really needed to be changed regarding the structure for teaching it out.
<br>
<br>
Knowing that Phase 3 is going to include a lot more AJAX, I have a goal of drilling as many tutorials into my brain this weekend and in the coming weeks. I intend for AJAX to go from being my weak point to my strongest asset.
<br>
<br>
Other than that, not a lot happened today. I'm a little disappointed that I didn't get my full Phase 2 review yet, but will look forward to tomorrow to find out if I'm moving on to Phase 3. I'm confident that I will be, since any weaknesses I have are weaknesses shared by most of my team.
<br>
<br>
Until tomorrow, I'm Edwin Unger, and I'm a web developer in training.