---
layout: post
title:  "DBC Phase 3, Day 14"
date:   2015-06-04
categories: blog
excerpt: "I'm ready. Ready to be finished with DBC, ready to return to the real world, ready to graduate and start looking for a job, ready to be finished with this project and start working on another one. I've been feeling this way for the past few days now, but wasn't really sure how to put it into words. I don't think I'm getting burnt out, because the first thought I have when I imagine the day after DBC is getting started on another project. I also don't think it's just this final project, since there's a lot for me to be proud of, and my fingerprints are all over it. I really think it's just my brain telling me it's time to move on to something new."
---

I'm ready. Ready to be finished with DBC, ready to return to the real world, ready to graduate and start looking for a job, ready to be finished with this project and start working on another one.
<br>
<br>
I've been feeling this way for the past few days now, but wasn't really sure how to put it into words. I don't think I'm getting burnt out, because the first thought I have when I imagine the day after DBC is getting started on another project. I also don't think it's just this final project, since there's a lot for me to be proud of, and my fingerprints are all over it. I really think it's just my brain telling me it's time to move on to something new.
<br>
<br>
Today was mostly about putting the finishing touches on our app, though there were a few sections of which we wanted to change the functionality. All of the graphs work properly, we've got a nice demo created that walks through all portions of the site, and we've added a nice section for extra senses that tell you more about the city you're visiting. Looks Like, Sounds Like, Smells Like, Tastes Like all give a little more info about the city, such as cool restaurants, the music scene, etc.
<br>
<br>
We presented a run-through of our demo today, but it definitely did not go smoothly. We kept the whole thing under ten minutes, but it looked and felt unprepared. Luckily, we weren't the only ones, so we felt a little better, but we spent some time this evening really tightening each section.
<br>
<br>
Tomorrow is going to be awesome. Presentations, free lunch, graduation, freedom.
<br>
<br>
Until then, I'm Edwin Unger and I'm a junior web developer.