---
layout: post
title:  "DBC Phase 3, Day 13"
date:   2015-06-03
categories: blog
excerpt: "Feature freeze tonight, so there was a lot of hustle to make sure everything we wanted to include in our app was already up in some form on the site. Not really too much trouble for us, though, since we've been working on portions of the site from different computers the entire time. We just had to integrate everything into one app."
---

Feature freeze tonight, so there was a lot of hustle to make sure everything we wanted to include in our app was already up in some form on the site. Not really too much trouble for us, though, since we've been working on portions of the site from different computers the entire time. We just had to integrate everything into one app.
<br>
<br>
We figured out a way to take the data for the D3 graphs and split it into multiple charts that directly compares each particular attribute. Instead of seeing the high, low, and average temps for each city, we can now cycle through three different graphs that compare these temps for two cities on one graph. This is what we set out to do from the beginning, so it was great seeing it load exactly as we wanted.
<br>
<br>
We also spent some time integrating some plain English comparisons that one of our team member's has been working on. Basically, you take two cities and select a month to compare. It spits out months in your current city that are similar to the selected month in your new city. If it can't find a comparable month, it lets you know the closest month and how far off it is from what you're used to.
<br>
<br>
Tomorrow will be spent cleaning everything up and doing a bit of rehearsing for the final presentation.
<br>
<br>
Two days until we present. Two days until we graduate. Two days until I have to start looking for a job.
<br>
<br>
Until tomorrow, I'm Edwin Unger and I'm a junior web developer.